there's so many beautiful places to pain
here Point Reyes and one of the best
places of all is the beach itself I've
chosen a beautiful composition with the
beach and the ocean in the background
we're going to have a little bit of
water mostly the these wonderful dunes
so what I'm going to do is very broadly
place in a sketch I'm going to paint
these cliffs partly sketch them in at
first we'd go back and paint these the
proper color but what I'm doing is very
loosely sketching as we progress with
our sketch it's a key point to also pay
attention to the darks and lights as the
day progresses the lights going to
change a little and I want to try to
capture this morning light towards the
afternoon when the Sun is high all these
shadows are going to be gone and I want
to make little quick footnotes and I do
this in the sketch process to remind me
of the lighting that's happening at this
very moment and I'm going to add more
burnt sienna to my verticals just
because I want them to have a nice brown
undertone I'm going to take a little bit
of turpentine and actually pull off some
of my sketch to get a little highlight
on my rocks this is just a little
footnote there's very little water
showing in this composition and I'm
making the foreground much darker I want
to get the values in look at this energy
that I'm capturing in my painting also
it's important to realize that it is the
gesture of the brushstroke that will
count at the very end of the painting if
you bring a lot of energy into your
sketch that will play forth throughout
the whole painting grab a paper towel
and you can always wipe off areas where
you want light say I'm thinking about
the whole painting now
suddenly my main focal point in this
area I want to concentrate most of my
lighting in the main focal point area so
I'm gonna wipe some of that off I'm
gonna take a little bit of turpentine
I'm also paying attention to angles it's
a 45 degree angle this is a straight
angle that goes across with these rocks
and they have these wonderful little
green highlights on the top of them also
we have to remember to it seems like
this is high tide right now so if the
tide goes out we could end up with a lot
more Beach I like it the way it is right
now and at this point too you can
experiment around because if you put a
line and you say you don't like it you
can take your brush and you can just
easily take it out I'm gonna start
taking some white and some CAD iam
yellow and a little bit alizarin crimson
and that's going to be pretty much it
that I'm going to use on my palette the
colors of these ice plants are real
bright bright yellows bright greens
they're not indigenous to California but
they're sure beautiful I'm just very
quickly softening some of the edges
before we start doing the flowers and
now we're going to add a little bit of
purple on to our palette at this point
you could just go through your box and
find some interesting color because
we're going to start painting the
flowers so what I'm going to do is I'm
actually going to squeeze out some
colors out of the tube and these colors
are going to be like violets and they lo
red rose and just put a few little
flowers on top of these greens there's
some extreme yellow ones that go in
beautiful beautiful colors when we
started painting all of these ice plants
were all closed up and now they've
opened up for the Sun what a beautiful
day at Point Reyes I'm going to add a
little bit more grey to this yellow
color and we're going to put in some of
these pebbles
get the little rocks
and now with their flowers then it's
time to finish up our painting we've had
a beautiful day here at Point Reyes and
unfortunately we'll have to go but we'll
first pick up our signature brush and
sign the painting